Welcome back.
Let's look at the first of the two types of searching or traversing a tree or a graph.
It's called breadth first search.
Try saying that five times really fast.
The way breath first search works is that you start with the root node and move left to right across
the second level.
Then move left to right across the third level.
And so on and so forth.
You just keep going from left.
To right, left to right, level by level.
And you keep going until you find the node you're looking for or the tree ends.
Let's have a look at another visual.
Breath.
Research works like this.
We go to the root node.
Then the second level, the third level, and then finally the fourth level.
And you can see here how they're numbered going one by one, one by one.
Now we're going to code breadth for search and understand how it works.
But I want to mention that breadth first search uses additional memory because it is necessary to track
the child nodes of all the nodes on a given level while searching that level, this means that we need
to track every node and its children in order.
And we're going to talk about some of those implications when we code breadth for search and also look
at the pros and cons compared to the other kind.
Dapp First Search.
But let's go to our code for a quick example.
We have here the tree that we created in our tree data structure section.
A binary search tree.
That creates a tree for us that looks like this.
Nine is the root node.
We have four and 21, six, 15 and 170.
If we did breath for a search.
What would you think the order would be if we wanted to convert that into a list?
Well, we'd first visit nine, then we'd visit the second level for then 20, and then we visited the
third level again, going from left to right.
We'd visit one, then six, then 15, then 170.
And using breadth first search, we're able to create this list.
Let's have a look at the second way of traversing a tree or a graph, and that is depth first search.
Let's have a look.